---
layout: post
title: Current Routine
---

I am about 2 months into the Bloc program and at this point I have developed a routine that has been working well for me.  First thing in the morning, after walking my dogs and eating breakfast, I open up codewars.  I find a challenge in my skill level and take out pencil and paper.  I started using pencil and paper instead of typing out code first because it seemed to help me with developing a better plan.  I noticed when I didn't start out writing down my plan I would often get stuck in the middle of solving the problem and realize it wasn't going to work.  I write out my logic for how I want to attack this problem until I have a strong enough foundation to work from.  At this point I open up repl.it and begin implementing my code.  If I can’t solve the problem in less than 45 minutes I move on to my program’s daily checkpoints.  I have found that working on a codewars challenge first thing in the morning is incredibly powerful for jump-starting my brain.  Even if I don’t end up solving the problem, I still get my creative mind active and ready to solve the other problems of the day.   

During the middle of the day, after going for another walk with the dogs and eating lunch, I sit back down at my desk and ease back into work. My strategy for regaining momentum after the mid day lunch break is to watch a light YouTube video that is somewhat related to programming. I find that watching a short tutorial or discussion about something programming related is the best way to get myself motivated to power through difficult technical jargon that occasionally makes me want to put my face through my monitor.  However, if I am actually trying to solve a problem writing code during a programming checkpoint, than I rarely lack any motivation after the mid day break and just get straight back to problem solving.  

I also try to sprinkle a few 5-10 minute breaks throughout the day to help keep me focused and sharp into the evening time. At around 6pm, my end of the day strategy is to grab a cold beverage and enjoy the feeling of a productive day. I usually tell myself at this point in the evening that I'm done working for the day. However, I find myself doing additional work here and there into the night to keep myself fully immersed during my education.  With this basic structured work day, I have been able to limit and manage any stress that comes my way.
