---
  layout: post
  title: My Background and Experience at Bloc
---
 My path to the Bloc program’s Software Development Track was a bit unconventional.  I was playing online poker professionally for the past three years until I had a discussion with my coach.  To make a long story short, we came to the conclusion that there was a clear pattern of popular poker sites shutting down due to stricter government regulation.  The future of online poker was not looking optimistic so I felt it was time to look for a new career. Through my research, I realized that many of the skills that made me successful in poker mirrored some of the skills of being a successful programmer.  I was already equipped with the ability to spend long hours in front of a computer while maintaining intense concentration, awareness, and attention to detail. I also gained incredible discipline working for myself as well as the ability to consistently research and adapt my current strategies based on population trends.  Once I decided to get into the programming field, I chose to enroll in Bloc. I came into this program with an open mind and equipped with the belief that I would enjoy coding and programming due to my love of computers, new challenges, and solving problems. I am still in the beginning learning stages of programming and coding and I have thoroughly enjoyed the learning process thus far.

I started out in this program learning the basics of HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  I found HTML and CSS to be fairly straightforward and simple but when I got to the more advanced parts of JavaScript I was thrown *for* a *loop*.  I constantly struggled with learning JavaScript and I had many moments of doubt in my ability to become successful in this field.  However, through some perseverance and determination I began to get a better handle on the language and started to gain the ability to solve some low level codewars challenges.  Being able to solve a few codewars challenges using JavaScript felt great and gave me a boost of confidence I truly needed to gain some momentum in the learning process.  Although I still continue to wrestle with doubts, I am beginning to realize that my determination to be successful in programming and my newfound love for learning to code is allowing me to continuously reach new levels of understanding.

 My first project in the Bloc program was to create a music playing web application.  At this point in the program I was nowhere near ready to build a site like this on my own, but luckily the program provided most of the code.  My understanding of the project code was tested throughout multiple checkpoints by making me fill in my own code implementations to get certain parts of the site functioning properly.  Implementing my own code into this project gave me excellent practice with solving problems on my own.  It truly forced me to understand what was going on with the flow of the code and be able to trace through a large web of interconnected functions and variables in order to inject some of my own logic. This project opened my eyes and allowed me to see the development process for the first time from start to finish.   Using my own computer, text editor, and files, I was truly able  to be part of the entire development process and get some hands on experience.
